docs(inputs): revamp events articles (#1912)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/datetimepicker/events.md

This article explains the events available in the Telerik DateTimePicker for Blazor:

* [OnBlur](#onblur)
* [OnCalendarCellRender](#oncalendarcellrender)
* [OnChange](#onchange)
* [OnClose](#onclose)
* [OnOpen](#onopen)
* [ValueChanged](#valuechanged)

## OnBlur

The `OnBlur` event fires when the component loses focus.

>caption Handle the OnBlur event

````CSHTML
@* You do not have to use OnChange to react to loss of focus *@

@result

<TelerikDateTimePicker @bind-Value="@DateTimePickerValue"
                       OnBlur="@OnBlurHandler">
</TelerikDateTimePicker>

@code {
    private string result = string.Empty;

    private DateTime? DateTimePickerValue { get; set; } = DateTime.Now;

    private void OnBlurHandler()
    {
        result = $"BLUR fired, current value is {DateTimePickerValue}.";
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

## OnCalendarCellRender

The `OnCalendarCellRender` event fires when each calendar cell in each view is about to render. The event allows you to:

> * Find out the current view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Identify the current view.
```

* Find out the cell date.
* Set a custom CSS class for the `<td>` element.

> The event handler receives as an argument an [`DateTimePickerCalendarCellRenderEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickercalendarcellrendereventargs) that contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an argument, the event handler receives a [`DateTimePickerCalendarCellRenderEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickercalendarcellrendereventargs), which contains the following properties:
```

| `Date` | `DateTime` | The date of the calendar cell. |
| `View` | `CalendarView` enum <br /> (`Month`) | The currently visible view. You can use it to determine if the calendar is rendering the MonthView, YearView, and so on. |

>caption Handle the OnCalendarCellRender event.

````CSHTML
@* Customize the calendar cells using the OnCalendarCellRender event. *@

<TelerikDateTimePicker @bind-Value="@DateTimePickerValue"
                       OnCalendarCellRender="@OnCalendarCellRenderHandler"
                       Width="295px">
</TelerikDateTimePicker>

<style>
    .special {
        color: white;
        background-color: greenyellow;
        font-weight: bold;
    }
</style>

@code {
    private DateTime? DateTimePickerValue { get; set; } = DateTime.Now;

    private void OnCalendarCellRenderHandler(DateTimePickerCalendarCellRenderEventArgs args)
    {
        if (args.View == CalendarView.Month)
        {
            args.Class = args.Date.Day % 3 == 0 ? "special" : "";
        }
        else if (args.View == CalendarView.Decade)
        {
            args.Class = args.Date.Year == 2020 ? "special" : "";
        }
    }
}
````

## OnChange

> The `OnChange` event represents a user action - confirmation of the current value. It fires when the user presses `Enter` in the input, or when the input loses focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `OnChange` event represents a user action—confirmation of the current value. It fires when the user presses `Enter` in the input or when the input loses focus.
```

The DateTimePicker is a generic component, so you must either provide a `Value`, or a type to the `T` parameter of the component.

>caption Handle OnChange and use two-way binding

````CSHTML
@result
<br />
model value: @DateTimePickerValue
<br />

<TelerikDateTimePicker @bind-Value="@DateTimePickerValue"
                       OnChange="@MyOnChangeHandler">
</TelerikDateTimePicker>

@code {
    private string result = string.Empty;

    private DateTime? DateTimePickerValue { get; set; } = DateTime.Now;

    private void MyOnChangeHandler(object userInput)
    {
        // the handler receives an object that you may need to cast to the type of the component
        // if you do not provide a Value, you must provide the Type parameter to the component
        result = string.Format("The user entered: {0}", (DateTime)userInput);
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

>tip The `OnChange` event is a custom event and does not interfere with bindings, so you can use it together with models and forms.

## OnClose

The `OnClose` event fires before the DateTimePicker popup closes.

> The event handler receives as an argument an [`DateTimePickerCloseEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickercloseeventargs) that contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an artgument, the event handler receives a [`DateTimePickerCloseEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickercloseeventargs), which contains the following properties:
```

}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

## OnOpen

The `OnOpen` event fires before the DateTimePicker popup renders. 

> The event handler receives as an argument an [`DateTimePickerOpenEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickeropeneventargs) that contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an argument, the event handler receives a [`DateTimePickerOpenEventArgs` object](/blazor-ui/api/telerik.blazor.components.datetimepickeropeneventargs), which contains the following properties:
```

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/parameters-table-styles.md#table-layout)

| Property | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `IsCancelled` | Set the `IsCancelled` property to `true` to cancel the opening of the popup. |

````CSHTML
<TelerikDateTimePicker @bind-Value="@DateTimePickerValue"
                       OnOpen="@OnDateTimePickerPopupOpen">
</TelerikDateTimePicker>

@code {
    private DateTime? DateTimePickerValue = DateTime.Now;

    private void OnDateTimePickerPopupOpen(DateTimePickerOpenEventArgs args)
    {
        //set the IsCancelled to true to cancel the OnOpen event
        args.IsCancelled = false;
    }
}
````

@[template](/_contentTemplates/common/general-info.md#event-callback-can-be-async)

## ValueChanged

> The `ValueChanged` event fires upon every valid change in the input (for example, keystroke, after date and time selection in the Calendar popup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ValueChanged` event fires upon every valid change in the input (for example, keystroke or after date and time selection in the Calendar popup).
```
